hey guys J here for more TOEFL reading
methodological practice here we go so in
this lesson we're going to look at TOEFL
reading skill number four which is
reference this is a pretty cool question
I like this one it's good so the
objective of this lesson is for you to
understand the question type and for you
to learn how to answer it accurately
that's what it's all about so what we're
going to do is this I'm going to
describe the task to you I'm going to
teach you a method because this one
requires this one requires a bit of an
understanding of sentence structure but
I'll show you what it's all about in a
second and we're going to do some
practice as well okay cool let me
describe this task to you so on test day
you're going to see a question type that
will look like this now of course the
the thing that you see immediately is
this pronoun and this pronoun here okay
let me just read it to you it says the
word they highlighted in paragraph 1
this is paragraph 1 here refers to
something so this word refers to
something does it refer to the Olympics
Tudor that's what this is about this
question type now the type of reference
words that you might see in that
question prompt might be prone gender
pronouns like he him or his she/her/hers
or neuter ones like it or it's they them
or there's the the the plural ones who
or who's which this and that because
it's these words that refer to something
for example it might refer to John and
this one might refer to Sally and this
one might refer to I don't know the
dictionary right or they refers to more
than one or who and which and this and
that in other words they refer back to
nouns cool so let's look at a method
step one read the question and the
answer options fine that sounds pretty
easy let's read the question
the word they highlighted in paragraph 1
refers to the Olympics people of color
from colonized countries the athletic
and anthropological community people
from different ethnic backgrounds so
what does they refer to the Olympics
people of color the community or people
of different ethnic backgrounds cool so
we've done that now we've connected this
to these step to find the reference word
in the passage okay whoopsie sorry find
the reference word in the passage okay
here it is here we can see it it's
always in bold it will be very clear to
you which word it is so here it is here
okay fine
identify the subject of the preceding
sentence okay okay let me just explain
something to you here so if we have like
something like John AIDS apples fine
John eats apples so here's the subject
here's the verb is the object fine then
we're going to have the reference word
here he enjoys them whatever or he
enjoys enjoys he enjoys them whatever he
enjoys then we're focusing on he so this
will refer back so we need to go back in
the paragraph if we fight if we're
trying to understand what this means or
what this refers to then we need to go a
sentence back and we need to identify
the subject here so then we can match it
up this is the most important thing so
let's do it here okay so we're looking
for the word of day okay let's let's
read this sentence here there was a
debate within the athletic and
anthropological community at the time as
to whether people of color from
colonized countries were natural
athletes so they thought they do some
experiments let's read it again there
was a debate within the athletic and
anthropological community at the time as
to whether people of color from
colonized countries with natural
athletes so they thought they'd do some
experiments to prove the veracity of
this racist anthropology
all right let's have a look you said
there was a debate so this this is a
subject but what's the other subject
here that the main sentence part here
can you see it is it the Olympics well
is that people from of color from
colonized countries well is it the
athletic and anthropological community
is that people from different ethnic
backgrounds tip to find the subject of a
sentence ask yourself who or what does
who or what does so in other words a
subject is always going to be well in
this case if the pronouns coming next
it's going to be a noun like a who like
a person noun or a thing or what also
another thing so here we've got person
and here we've got a thing okay think
this is what subjects are the nouns
either personal people also a noun but
of what a thing or things and the verb
always follows it okay cool
so what's your answer match the subject
with the reference word here we go so
the answer is see the athletic and
anthropological community
let me just read it to you one more time
there was because sometimes it's not
that simple we don't just write we don't
just write subject-verb-object sentences
sometimes there are number of different
subjects in the sentence because it's a
complex sentence so you really need to
think critically about what that
reference where they is referring back
to which one which subject okay tricky
stuff so there was a debate so it's not
a debate because it's they that's
singular I have to bait they and it's
not mentioned here within the athletic
and anthropological community okay we
consider the community as eat or they in
this case at the time as to whether
people of color from colonized countries
were natural athletes so they thought
they'd do some experiments they're doing
remember and they refers to
the athletic and anthropological
community practice time this is a short
one but it's a good one
give yourself a minute I really want you
to think carefully before you choose
your option because this this is a trick
this is a really tricky little question
okay and it's harder than you think give
yourself a good minute and really trying
to find the right answer pause the video
we'll come back in a second right did
you get it
there there what's referring back to
which subject is it referring back to
okay let's have a look let's have a look
at this so the word they're highlighted
in paragraph three refers to researchers
participants artists or non artists
let's read it it was noted and tracked
which participants in the study
considered themselves artists so that
their results could be compared to non
artists okay so we got a few options
here it could be participants it could
be artists so the results could be
compared to non artists but this one
comes after so we're not going to do non
artists so we'll eliminate that one that
comes after the reference word we want
to find the subject before the reference
worth so participants results could be
compared or artist results could be
compared what did you get because really
there are two options here okay the
answer is in fact participants that is
the subject for which that pronoun there
refers back to participants not artists
because there's also a meaning thing
going on there let's let's have a look
at the meaning aspect of it as well so
we've got participants in the study
considered themselves artists so sorry
it was noted and tracked which
participants in the study considered
themselves artists so that they're the
participants results could be compared
to non artists
I told you that was a tricky one cool
for TOEFL success go to e to language
comm and for more practice of this
question time because it looks simple
but I tell you what finding that
reference can sometimes be really well
it's a bit of a mind game if you need
help check out the website lots of
practice material tutorials live classes
you name it we've got it see you soon